README.md, before:

# 🛡️ Scholarship Sentinel 🛡️
[![Daily Scholarship Sentinel](https://github.com/corruptcache/scholarship-sentinel/actions/workflows/daily_sentinel.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/corruptcache/scholarship-sentinel/actions/workflows/daily_sentinel.yml)
### Open Source Grant Intelligence

>"Financial aid isn't a scarcity problem; it's a visibility problem."

##### Scholarship Sentinel is an automated Open Source Intelligence (OSINT) architecture designed to democratize access to workforce development funding. By monitoring institutional databases 24/7, it eliminates the "information asymmetry" that keeps students in debt.

### Follow Me On [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/johnaknowles/) For Scholarship Updates!

## 🏗️ The Architecture

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[GitHub Actions] --> B(blackbaud_scraper.py);
    B -- Writes --> C{scholarship_state_search.json};
    B -- Calls --> D[Discord Alert];
    B -- Calls --> E[LinkedIn Alert];
    E -- Posts --> F((LinkedIn));
```

Most students check scholarship portals once a semester. This system runs a sentinel every morning.

This project uses a Serverless CI/CD Pipeline (GitHub Actions) to execute a specialized intelligence sweep:

* **The Sentinel:** Monitors the AcademicWorks/blackbaud portals for pretty much any school that uses the same backend. It keeps track of active scholarships that match your keywords. It tracks new scholarships and more importantly if dealine has been extended. Extended deadlines can sometimes mean **less competition** and/or **lowered requirements** (not guaranteed).  
* **The Signal:** When new funding is detected or extended deadlines are detected, a github page containing all scholarships is generated and the system pipes a rich-text payload to a Discord Webhook.  
* **The Community:** A secondary bot formats the intelligence into a LinkedIn update to inform the wider student body.
* **Cron Jobs Be Chronic:** A cron job set to run Monday - Friday at 9am EST.

## 📂 File Structure

The repository is organized into the following directories:

*   `scrapers/`: Contains the scripts for scraping scholarship data.
*   `alerts/`: Contains the scripts for sending alerts to Discord and LinkedIn.
*   `tests/`: Contains test scripts for the scrapers and alerts.
*   `data/`: Stores the generated scholarship data (JSON and CSV).
*   `config/`: Contains configuration files for the scrapers. Tweak schools and keywords to your liking.
*   `logs/`: created automatically by the system and stores logs for debugging and monitoring purposes.
*   `docs/`: Contains documentation for the project.
 
## 🛠️ The Toolkit

This repository contains distinct modules for targeted intelligence gathering:

| Module | Target | Technique |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| `scrapers/blackbaud_scraper.py` | Multiple Schools | BeautifulSoup scraping of Blackbaud portals. Features Timezone-Adjusted Timestamping to track administrative schedules. |
| `alerts/linkedin_alert.py` | Social Signal | Automates community distribution via the LinkedIn UGC API. |

## 🧪 Testing & Integration

To verify connectivity and formatting without waiting for the daily cron job, use the included test scripts:

| Script | Purpose |
| :---- | :---- |
| `tests/test_discord_alert.py` | Unit tests for the Discord alert logic. |
| `tests/test_linkedin_alert.py` | Unit tests for the LinkedIn alert logic. |

## 🚀 Deployment

### **Option 1: The "Serverless" Method (Recommended)**

This project is optimized for GitHub Actions. You do not need a server.

1. **Fork this Repository.**  
2. **Configure Secrets:** Go to Settings \-> Secrets and variables \-> Actions and add:  
```env
   DISCORD_WEBHOOK_URL: Your Discord Webhook.  
   LINKEDIN_ACCESS_TOKEN: Your LinkedIn API access token.  
```
3. **Enable the Workflow:** Go to the "Actions" tab and enable the scan.  
4. **Done:** The bot will now run every weekday morning at 09:00 EST (14:00 UTC).

### **Option 2: Local Execution (Home Lab)**

To run this on your own machine (or Raspberry Pi):

1. Clone the repo
```bash
git clone https://github.com/corruptcache/scholarship-sentinel.git
```
2. Install Dependencies  
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
3. Set Environment Variables (.env file) 
```env
DISCORD_WEBHOOK_URL=https://discord.com/api/webhook
```
4. Run the Scanner  
```bash
python scrapers/blackbaud_scraper.py
```
## 📈 Note on Quiet Periods

By default, `alerts/linkedin_alert.py` will stay quiet if no new/updated scholarships are detected in the last 25 hours. This prevents "spamming" your network with empty updates. If you require a "Heartbeat" to ensure proper functionality, check the logs in GitHub Actions.

## Scraped Colleges

| School Name | Scholarship Portal |
|-------------|--------------------|
| CPCC        | https://cpcc.academicworks.com/opportunities |
| NC State    | https://ncsu.academicworks.com/opportunities |
| ECU         | https://ecu.academicworks.com/opportunities |
| Wake Tech   | https://waketech.academicworks.com/opportunities |
| Fay Tech    | https://faytechcc.academicworks.com/opportunities |
| UofSC       | https://sc.academicworks.com/opportunities |
| CofC        | https://cofc.academicworks.com/opportunities |
| Gvltec      | https://gvltec.academicworks.com/opportunities |

## ⚖️ Ethical Design

This tool is designed with Responsible Automation principles:

*   **Rate Limiting:** All scripts include time.sleep() delays to prevent server load.
    
*   **Passive Recon:** The GitHub Action runs only once per day, respecting standard robots.txt crawl frequencies.
    
*   **Spam Prevention:** The LinkedIn bot only posts when new data exists. It does not post "No Update" messages to social feeds.
    
*   **Public Benefit:** The data collected is not sold or gated. It is open-sourced to improve financial literacy for the student community.

## 📄 License

This project is open-source under the MIT License.  
Built for the Cyber Community. To be utilized by anyone who may find it useful.

Commit message:

Docs: Update Toolkit and Testing tables in README
The `README.md` file was outdated and did not reflect the new utility
and testing scripts that have been added to the project. This commit
updates the documentation to provide an accurate overview of the
repository's current capabilities.

The following tables have been updated:
- The **"Toolkit"** table now includes the new
    `scripts/audit_security.py` and `scripts/detect_typosquat.py`
    utilities.
- The **"Testing & Integration"** table now includes the
    `scripts/preview_linkedin_post.py` script for offline formatting
    checks.

This ensures that the documentation is synchronized with the project's
features and provides a complete guide for developers and users.

README.md, after:

# 🛡️ Scholarship Sentinel 🛡️
[![Daily Scholarship Sentinel](https://github.com/corruptcache/scholarship-sentinel/actions/workflows/daily_sentinel.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/corruptcache/scholarship-sentinel/actions/workflows/daily_sentinel.yml)
### Open Source Grant Intelligence

>"Financial aid isn't a scarcity problem; it's a visibility problem."

##### Scholarship Sentinel is an automated Open Source Intelligence (OSINT) architecture designed to democratize access to workforce development funding. By monitoring institutional databases 24/7, it eliminates the "information asymmetry" that keeps students in debt.

### Follow Me On [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/johnaknowles/) For Scholarship Updates!

## 🏗️ The Architecture

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[GitHub Actions] --> B(blackbaud_scraper.py);
    B -- Writes --> C{scholarship_state_search.json};
    B -- Calls --> D[Discord Alert];
    B -- Calls --> E[LinkedIn Alert];
    E -- Posts --> F((LinkedIn));
```

Most students check scholarship portals once a semester. This system runs a sentinel every morning.

This project uses a Serverless CI/CD Pipeline (GitHub Actions) to execute a specialized intelligence sweep:

* **The Sentinel:** Monitors the AcademicWorks/blackbaud portals for pretty much any school that uses the same backend. It keeps track of active scholarships that match your keywords. It tracks new scholarships and more importantly if dealine has been extended. Extended deadlines can sometimes mean **less competition** and/or **lowered requirements** (not guaranteed).  
* **The Signal:** When new funding is detected or extended deadlines are detected, a github page containing all scholarships is generated and the system pipes a rich-text payload to a Discord Webhook.  
* **The Community:** A secondary bot formats the intelligence into a LinkedIn update to inform the wider student body.
* **Cron Jobs Be Chronic:** A cron job set to run Monday - Friday at 9am EST.

## 📂 File Structure

The repository is organized into the following directories:

*   `scrapers/`: Contains the scripts for scraping scholarship data.
*   `alerts/`: Contains the scripts for sending alerts to Discord and LinkedIn.
*   `tests/`: Contains test scripts for the scrapers and alerts.
*   `data/`: Stores the generated scholarship data (JSON and CSV).
*   `config/`: Contains configuration files for the scrapers. Tweak schools and keywords to your liking.
*   `logs/`: created automatically by the system and stores logs for debugging and monitoring purposes.
*   `docs/`: Contains documentation for the project.
 
## 🛠️ The Toolkit

This repository contains distinct modules for targeted intelligence gathering:

| Module | Target | Technique |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| `scrapers/blackbaud_scraper.py` | Multiple Schools | BeautifulSoup scraping of Blackbaud portals. Features Timezone-Adjusted Timestamping to track administrative schedules. |
| `alerts/linkedin_alert.py` | Social Signal | Automates community distribution via the LinkedIn UGC API. |
| `scripts/audit_security.py` | Portal Security | Audits SSL certificates and security headers of target sites. |
| `scripts/detect_typosquat.py` | Domain Security | Generates and checks for potential typosquatting domains. |

## 🧪 Testing & Integration

To verify connectivity and formatting without waiting for the daily cron job, use the included test scripts:

| Script | Purpose |
| :---- | :---- |
| `tests/test_discord_alert.py` | Unit tests for the Discord alert logic. |
| `tests/test_linkedin_alert.py` | Unit tests for the LinkedIn alert logic. |
| `scripts/preview_linkedin_post.py` | Generates a console preview of the LinkedIn post for formatting checks. |

## 🚀 Deployment

### **Option 1: The "Serverless" Method (Recommended)**

This project is optimized for GitHub Actions. You do not need a server.

1. **Fork this Repository.**  
2. **Configure Secrets:** Go to Settings \-> Secrets and variables \-> Actions and add:  
```env
   DISCORD_WEBHOOK_URL: Your Discord Webhook.  
   LINKEDIN_ACCESS_TOKEN: Your LinkedIn API access token.  
```
3. **Enable the Workflow:** Go to the "Actions" tab and enable the scan.  
4. **Done:** The bot will now run every weekday morning at 09:00 EST (14:00 UTC).

### **Option 2: Local Execution (Home Lab)**

To run this on your own machine (or Raspberry Pi):

1. Clone the repo
```bash
git clone https://github.com/corruptcache/scholarship-sentinel.git
```
2. Install Dependencies  
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
3. Set Environment Variables (.env file) 
```env
DISCORD_WEBHOOK_URL=https://discord.com/api/webhook
```
4. Run the Scanner  
```bash
python scrapers/blackbaud_scraper.py
```
## 📈 Note on Quiet Periods

By default, `alerts/linkedin_alert.py` will stay quiet if no new/updated scholarships are detected in the last 25 hours. This prevents "spamming" your network with empty updates. If you require a "Heartbeat" to ensure proper functionality, check the logs in GitHub Actions.

## Scraped Colleges

| School Name | Scholarship Portal |
|-------------|--------------------|
| FSU         | https://fsu.academicworks.com/ |
| VT          | https://vt.academicworks.com/ |
| UTAH        | https://utah.academicworks.com/ |
| SFSU        | https://sfsu.academicworks.com/ |
| CPCC        | https://cpcc.academicworks.com/opportunities |
| NC State    | https://ncsu.academicworks.com/opportunities |
| ECU         | https://ecu.academicworks.com/opportunities |
| Wake Tech   | https://waketech.academicworks.com/opportunities |
| Fay Tech    | https://faytechcc.academicworks.com/opportunities |
| UofSC       | https://sc.academicworks.com/opportunities |
| CofC        | https://cofc.academicworks.com/opportunities |
| Gvltec      | https://gvltec.academicworks.com/opportunities |

## ⚖️ Ethical Design

This tool is designed with Responsible Automation principles:

*   **Rate Limiting:** All scripts include time.sleep() delays to prevent server load.
    
*   **Passive Recon:** The GitHub Action runs only once per day, respecting standard robots.txt crawl frequencies.
    
*   **Spam Prevention:** The LinkedIn bot only posts when new data exists. It does not post "No Update" messages to social feeds.
    
*   **Public Benefit:** The data collected is not sold or gated. It is open-sourced to improve financial literacy for the student community.

## 📄 License

This project is open-source under the MIT License.  
Built for the Cyber Community. To be utilized by anyone who may find it useful.
